digest: end of 2020 editorial pass (#1355)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-digest-headers.md

representation of a resource eg. Range Requests (see Section 14.2 of
{{SEMANTICS}}).

This document replaces [RFC3230] to better align with {{SEMANTICS}} and to
provide more detailed description of `Digest` usage in request and response
cases. Changes are intended to be semantically compatible with existing

> implementations but note that negotiation of Content-MD5 is deprecated
> {{deprecate-contentMD5}}, `Digest` field parameters are obsoleted
> {{obsolete-parameters}}, "md5" and "sha" digest-algorithms are obsoleted
> {{broken-algorithms}} and the ADLER32 algorithm is deprecated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
implementations but note that negotiation of `Content-MD5` is deprecated
{{deprecate-contentMD5}}, `Digest` field parameters are obsoleted
{{obsolete-parameters}}, "md5" and "sha" digest-algorithms are obsoleted
{{broken-algorithms}} and the "adler32" algorithm is deprecated
```

[RFC7231].
The `contentMD5` token defined in Section 5 of [RFC3230] MUST NOT be used as a digest-algorithm.

# Obsolete Digest Field Parameters {#obsolete-parameters}

Section 4.1.1 and 4.2 of [RFC3230] defined field parameters. This document
obsoletes the usage of parameters with `Digest` because this feature has not
been widely deployed and complicates field-value processing.

[RFC3230] intended field parameters to provide a common way to attach additional
information to a representation-data-digest. However, if parameters are used as
an input to validate the checksum, an attacker could alter them to steer the
validation behavior.

A digest-algorithm can still be parameterized by defining its own way to encode parameters into the

> representation-data-digest, in such a way as to mitigate security risks related to its computation.

Reviewer: I'd merge all chunks until here.

because, under certain conditions, it provides weak detection of errors. It is now
NOT RECOMMENDED for use with `Digest`.

## Digest for End-to-End Integrity

`Digest` alone does not provide end-to-end integrity of HTTP messages over
multiple hops, as it just covers the `representation data` and not the
`representation metadata`.

Besides, it allows to protect `representation data` from buggy manipulation,
undesired "transforming proxies" (see Section 7.7 of {{SEMANTICS}}), etc.
`Digest` only covers the `representation data` and not the
`representation metadata`. `Digest` could help protect the `representation data`
from buggy manipulation, undesired "transforming proxies" (see Section 7.7 of {{SEMANTICS}})
or other actions as the data passes across multiple hops or system boundaries.
Even a simple mechanism for end-to-end `representation data` integrity is valuable
because user-agent can validate that resource retrieval succeeded before handing off to a
HTML parser, video player etc. for parsing.

Moreover, identity digest-algorithms (eg. "id-sha-256" and "id-sha-512") allow
piecing together a resource from different sources (e.g. different servers that

> perhaps apply different content codings) enabling the user-agent to detect that

Reviewer: Is there a reason for removing a reference to id- algos?

> ## Usage in Signatures {#usage-in-signatures}

Reviewer: I'd merge everything below this line.

or combining different field values (see Section 5.2 of {{SEMANTICS}})
might affect signature validation.

## Usage in Trailer Fields

When `Digest` is used in trailer fields, the receiver gets the digest value after the payload data
and may thus be tempted to process the data before validating the digest value.
It is prefereable that data is only be processed after validating the Digest.

If received in trailers, `Digest` MUST NOT be discarded;
instead, it MAY be merged in the header section (See Section 6.5.1 of {{SEMANTICS}}).

> Not every digest-algorithm is suitable for use in trailer fields, some may require to pre-process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not every digest-algorithm is suitable for use in the trailer section, some may require to pre-process
```
